feat(doc): update readme to include changelog and remove matrix (#2775)
OpenAccess-AI-Collective/axolotl: README.md

    <img src="https://github.com/axolotl-ai-cloud/axolotl/actions/workflows/multi-gpu-e2e.yml/badge.svg" alt="multigpu-semi-weekly tests">
</p>

## 🎉 Latest Updates

- 2025/05: Quantization Aware Training (QAT) support has been added to Axolotl. Explore the [docs](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/qat.html) to learn more!
- 2025/04: Llama 4 support has been added in Axolotl. See [examples](https://github.com/axolotl-ai-cloud/axolotl/tree/main/examples/llama-4) to start training your own Llama 4 models with Axolotl's linearized version!

> - 2025/03: Axolotl has implemented Sequence Parallelism (SP) support. Read the [blog](https://huggingface.co/blog/axolotl-ai-co/long-context-with-sequence-parallelism-in-axolotl) and [docs](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/sequence_parallelism.html) to extend your training context to higher sequence lengths!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 2025/03: Axolotl has implemented Sequence Parallelism (SP) support. Read the [blog](https://huggingface.co/blog/axolotl-ai-co/long-context-with-sequence-parallelism-in-axolotl) and [docs](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/sequence_parallelism.html) to learn how to scale your context length when fine-tuning.
```

> - 2025/03: (Beta) Fine-tuning Multimodal models is now supported in Axolotl. Check out the [docs](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/multimodal.html) to fine-tune your own!

Reviewer: Any examples of MM models?

Author: It's linked in docs, not sure if we should list all here

> - 2025/03: Muon optimizer support has been added to Axolotl. Pass `muon` to the `optimizer` field in the YAML file to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 2025/03: Muon optimizer support has been added to Axolotl. Simply update your config with `optimizer: muon` to get started more sample efficient fine-tuning!
```

- 2025/02: Axolotl has added LoRA optimizations to reduce memory usage and improve training speed for LoRA and QLoRA in single GPU and multi-GPU training (DDP and DeepSpeed). Jump into the [docs](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/lora_optims.html) to give it a try.
- 2025/02: Axolotl has added GRPO support. Dive into our [blog](https://huggingface.co/blog/axolotl-ai-co/training-llms-w-interpreter-feedback-wasm) and [GRPO example](https://github.com/axolotl-ai-cloud/grpo_code) and have some fun!
- 2025/01: Axolotl has added Reward Modelling / Process Reward Modelling fine-tuning support. See [docs](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/reward_modelling.html).

## ✨ Overview

Axolotl is a tool designed to streamline post-training for various AI models.

Features:

> - **Multiple Model Support**: Train various models like LLaMA, Mistral, Mixtral, Pythia, and more. We are compatible with HuggingFace transformers models.

Reviewer: Any HF? Or just causal LMs?

> - **Training Methods**: Full fine-tuning, LoRA, QLoRA, GPTQ, Preference Tuning (DPO, IPO, KTO, ORPO), and RL (GRPO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Training Methods**: Full fine-tuning, LoRA, QLoRA, GPTQ, QAT, Preference Tuning (DPO, IPO, KTO, ORPO), and RL (GRPO).
```

> - **Easy Configuration**: Re-useable YAML files between preprocess, training, evaluation, and inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Easy Configuration**: Re-useable a single YAML file between dataste preprocess, training, evaluation, quantization, and inference.
```

> - **Performance Optimizations**: [Multipacking](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/multipack.html), [Flash Attention](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention), [Xformers](https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers), [Flex Attention](https://pytorch.org/blog/flexattention/), [Liger Kernel](https://github.com/linkedin/Liger-Kernel), [Cut Cross Entropy](https://github.com/apple/ml-cross-entropy/tree/main), Multi-GPU training (FSDP1, FSDP2, DeepSpeed), Multi-node training (Torchrun, Ray).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Performance Optimizations**: [Multipacking](https://docs.axolotl.ai/docs/multipack.html), [Flash Attention](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention), [Xformers](https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers), [Flex Attention](https://pytorch.org/blog/flexattention/), [Liger Kernel](https://github.com/linkedin/Liger-Kernel), [Cut Cross Entropy](https://github.com/apple/ml-cross-entropy/tree/main), Multi-GPU training (FSDP1, FSDP2, DeepSpeed), Multi-node training (Torchrun, Ray), and many more!
```

> - **Flexible Dataset Handling**: Load from local, HuggingFace, and cloud (S3, Azure, GCP, OCI) datasets.

Reviewer: highlight streaming support?

Author: It may be a bit confusing for this (as we don't have complete parity for it), so would leave it like this as for now.

> - **Cloud Ready**: We ship [Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/u/axolotlai) and also [PyPI packages](https://pypi.org/project/axolotl/) for use on cloud platforms and local hardware.

Reviewer: Modal?

Reviewer 2: I think we leave most provider callouts in https://github.com/axolotl-ai-cloud/axolotl/blob/09c685fd2c80f30e0d4a8ee937f8cc9058fce15f/docs/installation.qmd#L126-L130

> - **Advanced Features**: Quantization Aware Training (QAT), Sequence Parallelism (SP), Reward Modelling (RM), Process Reward Modelling (PRM), Multimodal, LoRA optimizations, and more.

Reviewer: Would remove this
```suggestion
```

Author: Is there a reason for this?
